# Branches

Branches can be used to store independent series of commits in the
repository, e.g., to fix bugs for a released software project while
simultaneously developing new features for the next project version.

Git distinguishes between two kinds of branches: *local branches* and
*remote branches*. In the local repository, you can create as many local
branches as you like. Remote branches, on the other hand, are local
branches of the origin repository. In other words: Cloning a remote
repository clones all its local branches which are then stored in your
local repository as remote branches. You can't work directly on remote
branches, but have to create local branches, which are 'linked' to the
remote branches. The local branch is called *tracking branch*, and the
corresponding remote branch *tracked branch*. Local branches can be
tracking branches, but they don't have to.

The default local main branch created by Git is named *master*, which is
analogous to SVN's *trunk*. When cloning a remote repository, the master
tracks the remote branch *origin/master*.

## Working with Branches

When you push changes from your local branch to the origin repository,
these changes will be propagated to the tracked (remote) branch as well.
Similarly, when you pull changes from the origin repository, these
changes will also be stored in the tracked (remote) branch of the local
repository. To get the tracked branch changes into your local branch,
the remote changes have to be *merged from the tracked branch*. This can
be done either directly when invoking the *Pull* command in SmartGit, or
later by explicitly invoking the *Merge* command. An alternative to the
Merge command is the Rebase command.


#### Tip
>
>
>The method to be used by Pull (either *Merge* or *Rebase*) can be
>configured in **Repository\|Settings** on the **Pull** tab.
>
>

## Branches are just pointers to commits

Every branch is simply a named pointer to a commit. A special unique
pointer for every repository is the *HEAD* which points to the commit
the working tree state currently corresponds to. The HEAD cannot only
point to a commit, but also to a local branch, which itself points to a
commit. Committing changes will create a new commit on top of the commit
or local branch the HEAD is pointing to. If the HEAD points to a local
branch, the branch pointer will be moved forward to the new commit; thus
the HEAD will also indirectly point to the new commit. If the HEAD
points to a commit, the HEAD itself is moved forward to the new commit.
